[MUSIC]
>> Scott Moss: So here's a little hello
world getting started with Express just to
show you how simple it is.
I should've showed you some code of how
this will look if you didn't use Express.
You would've been like,
okay, Express makes sense.
But yeah,
this is a simple server in Express.
We require, well, first,
we NPM installed Express and
then we require it, we make our app and
then we set up a get request.
So every method we place on this app or
most of the methods are HTTP verb, so
we're gonna use the get verb.
So that means on any get request
to /sodos run this function.
Any post request to
/todos run this function.
And then, listen on port 3000.
So now, we can go local host port 3000 and
our server will be there.
That's it, just those few lines of code,
we had a server with two routes,
pretty simple.
So yeah, above an example of
a basic HTTP server using Express.
The req and the res that you see in
this callback functions right here,
they're short for request and response.
And they're just objects in
the callback that we get access to, and
the callback that gives us so
much flexibility and so much power.
This is also the great
thing about Express.
You'll see this pattern in a lot
server frameworks on node,
this req response type thing.
It's very, very common in
the middleware type of thing.
And we'll talk about
middleware in a minute, but
these two objects are very powerful, and
this is what you're gonna be working with
pretty much the entirety of the course
is the request objects, and
the response objects.
Modifying and
mutating them to get what you want and
to send back appropriate responses
from the appropriate requests.
>> Scott Moss: So on the request, we have
tons of information about what is trying
to access our server through
that request object.
And then using the response object we have
tons of ways to send back a response.
So here's a little more
complicated example.
Using like To-dos, all right,
everybody's made a todo app.
So if we were to do a git request,
todo/todos if we wanted
to send back the array of todos or
a database query of todos,
all you would have to say is
just res.json(todos), and
that's it, and
then the client gets it back.
That's all we would have to do.
We could also say response.send
which would send it back as well.
It also converts it so json.
But re.json converts undefined and null to
json which technically isn't valid json.
But it will convert it.
So that's why I use json here.
You could also do res.send.
But this is all you have to
do is to send back your json.
It's like, okay.
When somebody does a get request to todos,
take this array,
convert it to JSON and send it back.
That's what's happening.
The next line,
little something else is going on here.
So if we do a post request, which means
we're sending data to our server,
we want to create something,
with the appropriate middleware,
again we'll talk about middleware soon,
we get access to the actual object that
the client is posting to our server
by just my saying req.body.todo.
So the body property on the request and
get the todo object.
Now we have the todo that was posted
to server, add it to our list and
then just send it back.
And I made a little note here about
how res.json and res.send are pretty
much the same thing with some small
differences, with the undefined and null.
And then if we have some parameters in our
URL, we can access the parameters by doing
something like req.params, which is
an object of the parameters and the URLs.
So in this case we have one parameter and
we have given it the name id.
So if we wanted to access whatever
that was, so anything after todos,
that's gonna be considered the id,
we can access it by saying req.params and
using the name that we
specified up here which is id.
So we can get the id that the person
passed in and we can find our todos and
then send it back.
So again, very, very simple.
This is why I chose to use Express.
As you can see, it's powerful,
but yet it's very simple.
And you can also do this
yourself without Express.
It's a lot more work, but
you can totally do it.
Yeah, Mark?
>> Mark: Do you have to define one
function for every request type?
>> Scott Moss: Do you have to define one,
well, you definitely need at least one
function for each request type, but
you can define more than one function for
each request type, and
that's in middleware.
>> Mark: He kind of follows up,
if he wants to do the same
thing on both a get and a post.
>> Scott Moss: Hopefully, you're not
doing the same thing on a get and a post.
But, if for
whatever reason you did do that,
first of all you wouldn't
be following REST, but
if you wanted to do that then you
would just abstract that thing out and
either add it as a middleware or just
call it inside this callback function.
But I think the person who's asking that
question is getting into middleware and
we'll talk more about that.
So yeah, there's this concept of
shared functionality that you want
to run on specific routes or
an application or a stack of routes,
before you actually respond back to
the client and that's called middleware.
So we'll see what that looks like.
Next thing says middleware, yeah.
So, Express uses middleware to modify and
inspect the incoming request.
So what I mean by that is,
you can actually think of this
callback function as middleware.
Technically, it kind of is.
So really, middleware is just
a function that allows us to,
that's going to be ran in the order
that we register with Express.
And its job is to do
whatever we want it to do.
It can use any code that it wants.
But typically what middleware would do is
look at the request object, inspect it,
depending on what we're looking for
in the request object, it will either pass
the execution to the next middleware in
the stack or will stop the request and
the response cycle right there and
either throw an error or
respond back to the client and it'll be
like, we're done, don't even go forward.
If you don't know meet these credentials,
stop.
So, you don't even get to go to this
function and send a response back.
So we'll see better examples about
that later today, but middleware is
probably the most powerful feature in
Express other than the routing and
that's really all Express is.
It's the routing and
it's the middleware, that's all it is.
It's very lightweight, if you look
at the sourcecode for the Express,
it's like one page, it's small.
It's really small, it's really easy.
So yeah, there are,
because the middleware is so powerful,
you could think of middleware as
like the plugins inside of Express,
because of that there's such a big
community of third party middleware
modules out there that
we're gonna be using.
Express 3.0 had a lot of that
stuff baked in because they were
using something called Connect.
They had a big reliance on this
other framework called Connect and
then they got away from Connect but
they wanted the same stuff, so
they took out all that middleware and
now it's available third party side but
you can still get the same stuff.
So middleware from parsing, URLs,
through handling authentication,
we'll be able to use that stuff.
And it just makes building
with Express super easy.
And Express can also be
a static web server.
So we can serve static assets and
trust me, it makes it so
much easier than if you did it yourself.
If you ever had to just write a server
manually and serve static assets,
if you don't have any experience with
that, it can be quite difficult.
Setting the appropriate mine types,
reading files,
dealing with buffers,
stuff like that you know, chunks.
So it can be quite difficult if you don't
have a lot of experience with that.
Express just makes it easy and one line,
it'll handle all that stuff for you.